Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
A face. a fleet. a war. a man. a thought.
A trick. a trick to break the walls of Troy and burn it. scream into the ground.
What does it mean?
A gift for Athena.
Common gods. respect their offering.
Save it from the waves. take it to Athena's temple.
The war is over.
Stop!
Not this song.
I want to remind them of whose wine they're drinking.
I don't want Odysseus' song.
I want Odysseus.
Then why do you entertain suitors in his house night after night?
In this world. a man does what he chooses.
I do what I can.
I am a man. now a mom.
So throw them out. break Zeus' law and see what they do to you if you give them that excuse.
I've already lost a husband.
I don't want to lose a son.
My dad's coming back.
Then where is he?
Eight years since Troy fell.
Almost 20 since he left us.
Where is he?
We have to welcome him like we welcomed all of you.
Are you calling us beggars?
I'm saying you've been welcome here for three years.
We've only enjoyed your hospitality for so long.
Because your mother won't choose.
She's already married.
Odysseus is dead.
What do you know about my dad?
I know he kept stringy cattle and bad wine.
But you had the best of it the first two seasons.
I know he never came home.
Not yet.
You're pining for a daddy you didn't even know.
Like some sniffling bastard.
Well. since none of us can really know who our fathers are. don't claim to know mine.
But I did know her.
As boys.
We watched him hunt.
I tried to volunteer for his expedition to Troy.
But he told me to stay here and keep an eye on you.
On me or my mother.
You can't blame me for looking.
My dad is coming home.
And his hospitality won't be as generous as hers.
So he doesn't follow Zeus' law then?
Zeus' law tells us to treat strangers as we be treated because they might be gods in disguise.
I think we've established. Antinous. that you are not a god.
This one certainly doesn't smell like a god.
Wouldn't be much of a disguise if he did.
Careful.
He might strike you down right now.
That thunder was luck.
I don't know.
You have wise eyes.
Sina's eyes.
Here. you see all the traitors?
From Sparta.
He's gonna let us come home from the war?
Years ago.
Odysseus never came back?
We don't even know if he's alive.
Have you heard anything?
The song of how he won the war.
We've all heard that.
Anything else?
No.
But.
Sparta is full of Trojan war veterans.
Someone will know something.
You're Odysseus' son.
Go to Sparta.
Go.
See Menelaus.
He'd welcome you.
The queen wants to speak to the stranger.
She lives for news.
Just don't try to give her any false hope.
She has some way of knowing whether a person has actually seen Odysseus.
You see that. man?
You can't see much anymore. but that doesn't stop him beating travelers to death
in exchange for lies about my father.
No. no.
Too fast.
How can you know?
You don't need eyes to hear a hasty combination.
Mentor. push him.
Too fast.
He's as friendly as you.
He only answered to your father.
Where'd he get him from?
He meant right here.
I'll take him.
For your boy?
For a hunting dog.
Damned if he wasn't right.
Hold still.
How bad a scar do you want?
Why do you always pluck your bow?
It's only fair.
To warn your prey?
To fight with honor.
But you weren't fighting. you were hunting.
Hunting's nothing but fighting with stealth.
Clever.
Clever. but your cleverness is going to get you in trouble.
Try again.
This time. not as fast or precise.
You can't win with a perfect defense.
Draw the attack.
How?
Hesitate.
Open your belly to your opponent's blade.
Their attack becomes your chance.
You teach my father that?
No. no.
He taught me.
He said. you're not always going to be the strongest or the fastest. so be the smartest.
What would he do. huh?
If he came back here and find all these suitors in his house?
Don't.
I can't even let myself imagine what he'd do to them.
There are so many.
Cut a couple down.
The others cave.
Bullies and cowards.
Most of them were old enough to go to Troy. but when they saw Agamemnon's sail.
their fathers hit them.
And you knew Agamemnon's war would take many years and many lives.
So he raised his army by lottery.
Name?
Simo.
Draw.
No.
Name?
Intinuous.
Draw.
Yes. by lots.
Antinuous told me he volunteered.
Your boy's trying to take Sinan's place.
I'm not going to let him.
He needs to stay here. take care of his family.
He can watch over your boy too.
Of course.
He's with me.
He wanted Antinuous to look after me.
No. no. no.
But Odysseus was sensitive to a father's shame.
He felt for these fathers.
You and your mother meant more to him than promises of glory.
So he knew it would be years.
Did he tell my mother?
That's a question for her.
Eumass. is he ever coming back?
Hargis thinks so.
I've never known a dog reached 20.
But he's long outlived his master.
I didn't mean to stop you.
I'm in no hurry.
The elders decreed when I finish your grandfather's burial shroud. it'll be time to remarry.
Why?
Ithac has been without a king too long.
They want security.
From what?
The people from the sea.
That's just traveler's tales.
All we know of the world is traveler's tales.
That's how we found out Troy and Fallon.
Now they all tell stories of attacks by people from the sea.
And who are the people from the sea?
No one knows. but the elders wanted they could be prepared.
Prepared?
Part of the greatest civilization ever known.
Look at this great house.
Stone's as old as knowledge.
At the mercy of some greedy. unwanted guests.
The structure's nothing without people's respect for its meaning.
Zeus's law.
Treat others as you would be treated.
When they abuse that. they destroy everything.
So how could you think of marrying one of them?
Because a long time ago.
your father asked me to.
Agamemnon is our king.
The Trojans took his brother's wife.
Or she ran away with them.
Either way. the walls of Troy are said to be impregnable.
We'll sit outside that great city. trying to draw them into battle.
As years go by. Telemachus grows.
And you learn life without me.
Menelaus will give up on Helen.
This is Agamemnon's excuse to break Troy's control of the trading routes.
He won't let it pass.
Ever.
What if you refuse?
He'll take our son.
He would never.
He sacrificed his own daughter for favorable wins.
Why would the gods want his daughter's life?
The power of a sacrifice is in the cost to the person making it.
It's monstrous.
And committed.
I won't return soon.
If at all.
What if we ran?
Took you fast to the ship.
The brightest crew.
And headed for the horizon.
Held hands on deck.
As we rode west at dusk.
Chasing the escaping sun.
There's a world beyond these walls.
Agamemnon's vengeance.
Would fall on all of Idlikon.
Promise me.
If I don't return.
By the time Telemachus comes of age.
Promise me.
You'll take another husband.
Enough sacrifices.
Love's not a sacrifice.
Of course it is.
I don't want you to make it.
It's not up to you.
Promise me.
No.
Promise me you'll come back.
What if I can't?
Then your memory won't be making my decisions.
Take my pen.
Wear it.
Always.
Athena will bring you home.
I'm not sure it suits me.
When travelers claim to have seen you.
I'll ask what you were wearing.
And I'll know if they were lying.
If the people from the sea are real.
Right now.
Ithaca has no king to raise an army.
I could take this room.
Come.
String it.
That's not fair.
You said only he could string this bow.
He was happy to let others try.
He'd line up all the axes.
No one else ever did it.
Mom. they're bleeding us dry so you'll be forced to choose one of them before I can claim the throne myself.
The traveler told me Menelaus returned years ago.
They've all returned.
All who survived.
Maybe he is dead.
And if he is then this is my palace.
We need to know.
I have to go to Menelaus to find out the truth.
Do not because these suitors mean you harm.
Oh. you think I don't know that?
Every night they push me to give them the excuse they need.
And out there on the sea. on the road. they won't need an excuse.
You just won't come back.
You don't want me to claim the throne myself.
You just want to keep me in my place so that you can stay queen of Ithaca.
I've had enough of being queen of Ithaca without my king.
Without your king?
Or a king?
And you think you're ready to take your father's place?
Your child.
Too loud. Melantheus.
Don't wear your spurs in the palace.
You're a cowherd. not a horseman.
And you're a pig farmer.
And who are you to talk to me like that?
You're a servant our master left in charge of his herdsmen.
The master is long gone. you blind old fool.
And you're about as welcome here as that dog is.
Hargis!
Sir. he didn't do anything.
So that stink is you?
Leave the old dog alone.
Which one?
Both of us.
What did you say to me. slave?
He just got carried away.
Argus is my father's hunting dog.
His hunting dog?
Look at that thing.
Get it out of here. we're trying to eat.
Don't catch us. he's in pain.
Okay.
Then I'll put it out of his misery.
Leave him alone!
What did you see?
You all see?
Please don't hurt my son.
Easy. easy.
Young pup lost his head.
Show us some mercy.
Drink some more of his wine.
I'll take care of it.
It's my father's hunting dog.
He's only living to see Odysseus return.
He's fine.
I'll put him on the dung heap out front so he can greet his master a little sooner.
That dog stays out there.
Next time. think twice before you rough up your life for an animal.
You're a clit.
Lies. take them down to the ships. tell no one.
He's the only people you trust.
You'll break your mother's heart.
If I stay. they'll force me to fight.
No one will back me.
I have to find out what happened to my father.
Ithaca will be behind me if they know Odysseus is dead.
The suitors will never blow that.
You will never make it back alive.
Tell him and Tor to meet me at the ships just before dawn.
What do you want me to tell your mother?
To hold out for as long as she can.
Ship's ready. time's right.
Have I ever told you that you have wise eyes?
Athena's eyes?
Once or twice.
You haven't even asked me where we're going yet.
Where are we going?
We'll find my dad.
He's alive.
I can feel it in the wind and the waves.
He's out there somewhere.
Wandering. injured. lost. I don't know.
But he's alive.
More dreams?
Men drowning.
Inside.
Some dark space.
Firelight on stone.
I don't know.
Don't you want to remember?
Why can't God speak in ways we understand?
Who doesn't understand thunder?
The fire.
A child's smile.
Good harvest.
But you hide yourselves from us.
Look.
Who's moving that cloud?
Massing those birds.
Who's moving the water?
Who were you talking to?
Athena came to me again.
She's telling me to remember.
To leave.
Why would you leave?
We have everything we need.
How long have I been here. Calypso?
I have a home somewhere.
There's someone out there.
How do you know?
I don't know.
I feel.
What we have here could last forever.
Forever is for God.
We're your God.
You want to remember.
But what if remembering destroys your happiness?
Then I wasn't real.
No.
No more.
But I love it.
Stop eating the lotus.
Tell me what you remember.
After Troy.
Troy.
We won the war.
And then what?
Ten years on this fucking beach.
Let's go home.
Remember who we leave here.
Do we have enough provisions?
We've taken enough from Troy.
Another stop or two won't kill us.
We'll raise the sail.
Follow the southerly winds.
Yes. sir.
Agamemnon's rowing west on the known provisions route.
He's got more mouths to feed.
We'll find places to land.
Are you sure it's a risk?
That's all at Agamemnon long enough.
With a little luck and the right winds. we'll see some of the world still be home before Agamemnon.
Come on. boys.
Just keep the bear on the right.
Odysseus. land.
See?
Lucky bastard.
We're down to our last supplies.
Assemble a landing party.
Food and water.
Enough for three weeks.
What if they won't give it?
How badly do you want to get home?
Get your weapons ready!
Agging.
Moving!
Borrowing.
Pondering.
Ask him why they abandoned their village instead of welcoming us.
They said they thought we were the sea people.
No.
We're Greeks.
From Ithaca.
Maybe you heard of our victory at Troy.
We're headed west on the southerly winds.
He says if we go that way. we won't like the things we'll find.
After years of war. no one could stand between my men and home.
Not even me.
Then something happened.
Chasing the escaping sun.
There you go.
No. no. no. no. no.
Sheep come in flocks.
Let's follow.
Someone lives here.
Yeah. they make cheese.
Pretty good.
There's a lot of it.
We should leave.
We brought nothing to trade with.
Zeus' law.
I don't know if whoever lives here has heard of Zeus' law.
Or Zeus. for that matter.
Everyone's heard of Zeus' law.
Get the fire going.
We'll welcome the owner back.
Get away from the fire.
No!
Run out!
I think it's asleep.
Wait.
We can't move the rock.
We'll be trapped.
Spread the word in the morning.
When it lets out its flock. we'll rush the entrance.
Rest up.
Go!
Could we jam something in the cave mouth?
Leave a gap?
Maybe.
But what?
It's locked.
It'll notice.
But grab the thin end. put it in the fire.
How much rope do we have?
How big is the flock?
A couple dozen. maybe.
There's too many of us.
When it comes back. two of us have to get out.
Or at least get killed.
Run low. through the flock towards the entrance. and then split wide.
So we can only grab one of them?
Right.
Well. four of us should make the run.
Two and two.
Why risk more men?
He ate two of us last night.
We're warming on the two before he sleeps.
Go. go. go!
What about his body?
What about it?
We just leave him here to rot?
Has food for that thing?
We honor our dead Odysseus.
He died helping us escape.
We'll honor him by escaping.
He can talk.
Why didn't he talk before?
Do you talk to ants?
Should we reason with it?
I think we're past that.
What are you doing?
No!
Ah. come see. come on!
Go!
Why do you have to fire that arrow?
We lost good soldiers to that beast.
Yeah. and that beast was the son of Poseidon.
What?
When we put its eye out. we heard it crying his name.
That thing was a monster.
I heard it too.
So now the sea is against us?
And the wind.
Why are we supposed to get home with Poseidon against us?
We can't live by omens and sacrifices.
Do you know how many times I've heard you weeping. praying to Athena since we left Troy?
Couldn't you have shown some mercy?
Take this.
Wear it.
To remember those we couldn't bury.
The gods help those who help themselves.
From that moment. every rough sea or headwind told the crew we were cursed.
But where is my crew?
When will you let me see my men?
If I could just talk to them. they'd help me remember.
Did I have a wife?
Children?
Maybe a son?
How long have I been here?
A long time.
If I had a son. how old would he be now?
I don't know how to speak to a king.
You'll be fine.
Keep your mouth shut.
But if anyone asks. we're traitors from Crete.
Then we'll figure out how to approach the king.
Welcome.
Thank you.
You seem to be having place.
This way.
Where are you taking us?
The king insists on meeting strangers himself.
Sid.
Not you.
Are you.
Enjoy your hospitality.
As soon as the man's.
But perhaps you tell us who you are.
I'm going to pick the right day to arrive.
Feast to my daughter's wedding.
Tomorrow she leaves to start a new life.
You don't look like a beggar.
Imagine you know who I am.
And now last.
Son of Atreus.
Brother of Agamemnon.
The husband of Helen.
Perhaps you've heard of Helen.
Face.
I launched a thousand ships.
That may be now just 500.
Somebody left on the battlefields of Troy for that face.
For your brother's ambition.
This one looks familiar.
Ajax.
Chocos.
Achilles.
I don't miss him as much as one particular warrior.
He was the smartest of us all.
Ten years we rotted on that beach.
Fighting amongst ourselves until one man.
He found a way.
Odysseus.
Did you ever hear the story of the horse?
What did you hear from the inside?
We were in there for days.
We squeezed inside before the ship set sail.
Odysseus. he knew that no one could know that we were inside.
Not even Sin and the soldier we left behind.
The first two tides are men drown right in front of us.
Are they silent?
Are piss shit?
A gift.
For Athena.
Common gods.
Respect their offering.
Oh. my God.
He knew to wait for a moonless night
on the plains of Troy.
Go! Go!
Go!
I think you know the rest.
You've moved by my telling it.
You sure you're the board singing?
I have.
But they weren't there with all of you.
With your father. Odysseus.
You still like him?
When did you last see him?
Troy. the gods granted us a righteous victory.
Righteous.
The gods granted our righteous victory.
but did not bless our voyages.
Took me years to get home.
And he didn't.
Some did. and wish they hadn't.
Tell him.
Tell him about your brother.
No.
About the fate the gods bestowed on him
after your righteous struggle.
No.
About his hero's welcome.
About how Agamemnon made it home years before us.
Tell him how he was welcomed by his queen.
my twin sister. Clytemnestra.
No.
Tell him how she...
No!
He does not want to hear about my brother!
What's the news of his father?
I know nothing of Odysseus since Troy.
Nothing.
Not from any of your men.
Or Agamemnon's retreat or some traveler.
You come here for so much.
Is that what you're interested in?
Gossip.
You're in the right place.
Anyone want to spin a story about Odysseus?
Some say he's rich or some say poor.
Some say he perished.
Some say he's in prison.
What say you?
In prison?
What kind of prison
could hold a man like that?
Tell me what you do remember.
The rest will come.
And the men became more and more convinced
that I defended Poseidon.
We were hit by storm after storm.
all pushing us off course
until we were truly lost.
Hello.
We're here in peace.
We just need some food.
We need food.
Can you understand that?
It's just a child.
If that's a child.
what about its parents?
Hey. shh.
It's okay.
No. no. no. no.
Shhh.
Go!
Back to the ship!
Look out!
Fire!
One!
Ah!
Wait!
Turn to port. follow the ghost.
What if they have ships?
We need to get as far away as possible.
We don't have supplies for a blind crossing.
We've lost our way.
We need to find food and get our bearings.
Turn to port.
There!
Smoke there!
Go past. we'll find acreage at the beach.
Watch out!
Form a landing party.
Tomorrow.
Leave someone with the tenders.
We think you should stay.
We?
All of us.
Still alive.
Is this a mutiny?
That's up to you.
Give me your bow.
I'll make sure we eat tonight.
No matter what you find.
No. no. it's okay.
It's okay.
You're okay.
It's all right.
No one's going to hurt you.
If I do what you want.
No one is going to hurt you.
My name's Eurylochus.
What's your name?
Cersei.
Cersei?
We need food.
Badly.
I have food.
Lots of food.
You let me?
Your weapons.
We're armor.
Put it out the back.
Do you like my meat?
Why do you have so much?
You never know when strangers will come.
And then...
What's their appetites?
Too much is never enough.
I don't...
oh
Gorillacus
They haven't come back yet.
None of them?
No.
Give me your dagger.
Stay with the boat.
Why don't you just come here?
Did you come from the sea?
Are you alone?
My pigs have taken a life into you.
Are you hungry?
Leave your weapons at the door.
Enjoy the hospitality of Zeus.
Grab a hog.
You can slaughter it for your dinner.
Whoever you are. you're clearly not a farmer.
Here.
That stew smells good.
That's enough for just us.
Who says it's just us?
Who else is here?
Who indeed.
You say you're all alone.
But no one comes here alone.
No?
You can only reach this spot by sea.
So. where are your shipmates?
I'm looking for them.
Anyone happen to come this way?
But you prepared all this food.
You're questioning me?
You?
A traveler who's clearly starving.
yet hasn't touched the food in front of him.
Claims to be a sailor. yet wears a great warrior's armor.
And who breaks Zeus's law
by bringing a dagger into his hostess's house.
You have sharp eyes.
Sharpened by the gods.
Do they grant you insights?
Truths.
Sometimes.
Would they tell you where I could find my men?
You're a man.
That's right.
They would.
And would you tell me?
Perhaps.
If you give me your dagger.
Why would I help a liar
who refuses my hospitality?
I remember here earlier.
Now they're not.
They moved on?
Yes.
Leaving their rings.
I wouldn't.
Don't.
I don't know who this crow is to you.
If you don't put that knife down.
I will throw out of it to find out.
Don't hurt her.
Family.
Mother.
Your sister.
You did this to her like you turned my men into pigs.
I didn't turn their men into anything.
Look at them.
This is who they are.
Base.
Disgusting.
Primal urges that you value in battle.
They've raped and pillaged across the world for you.
And you think that's against their nature?
You think they only did that because you ordered them to?
A true commander thinks his men's savagery is actually discipline.
You don't seem that deluded.
But you sent them to me here on my own.
A gang of filthy soldiers with empty bellies and hot blood.
You thought they'd respect me and my home?
Look at them.
Know your own men.
Did they hurt you?
They would have.
They just want to go home.
Let them.
Come back.
I can't hear this guy.
Odysseus.
Back to the ship.
Take all the food you can carry.
Leave the meat.
You're not going to let her live.
She's a witch.
Who gave her powers?
Your gods.
Fill the jugs and skins of the stream.
Be ready to sail at dawn.
Why leave her like this?
We got on better this way.
I'm sorry if we offended you.
We can't get back without your help.
We need to know the way to the trade routes.
You're too lost.
What do you mean?
Only blind Tiresias can tell you how to go home.
Tiresias?
In Hades.
Nobody sails into hell and comes back.
You will.
Head north into the twilight.
And head inland until a river of fire meets a river of ice.
There you must dig a trench.
And fill it with the blood of sacrifice.
Gather the dead.
And learn how you go home.
You.
Not your men.
You curse them?
Not a curse.
A truth.
Your men don't want you to defy the gods.
The gods say only you make it home.
Then I defy the gods.
Sennar.
It's Odysseus.
Let him drink Odysseus.
Then you will hear his testings.
Odysseus.
Yes.
He lied to everyone.
Did you have to lie to me?
I needed you to believe.
Why did you have to volunteer?
Don't you remember how I came here?
I begged to take in Tendris' place.
He'd been called.
He offered money for your family.
If you take his place.
If the Trojans don't let me live.
If I never make it home.
Take this back to my father.
Tell him everything I did.
Odysseus.
Feel free to add some stuff.
You didn't trust me with the truth?
You knew I'd die for you.
Dying men tell the truth.
I needed you to believe.
I died for your lie on that beach.
I know.
I was there with you.
I heard you repeat the lie with your dying breath.
Winning us the war.
I was right there.
Inches from you.
Smelling your blood.
What comfort could that give me?
Not knowing you were inside that horse.
Until the dead told me.
Which dead?
A lot of veterans of your campaigns walk these shores.
The dead meet to lament the living.
And greet the newly dead.
My father was the first shade to find me.
To comfort you.
Shades don't comfort.
They want word of the living who wronged them.
My father had died in poverty.
Alone.
Begging for scraps from people like Antinous.
Antinous cheated you?
As he's no doubt cheating you.
How?
Who's in Ithaca looking after your wife and son?
My wife is of no concern.
Talk to Agamemnon about homecomings.
Agamemnon's here.
You buried me at Troy with respect.
Thank you.
But spare a thought for those you didn't.
It's not always possible.
When you get home.
Take a ship.
Head into the unknown west till you find land.
And there.
Give sacrifice.
And honor your men.
Do you still have the lot?
Of course.
If you make it home.
Give Antinous back his shame.
I will.
My lord.
Odysseus.
How are you here?
We won the war you headed for home.
Odysseus.
The most brilliant of all my generals.
He would never be snared as I was.
Were you cast adrift?
Like us?
No.
My misfortune was to make it home.
To be welcomed by my beautiful wife.
Bathed.
Anointed.
Made soft.
To learn the hardest lesson.
That I'd left a poison in her heart years before.
Good part of her heart had gone.
Ah!
Oh. no.
She and her lover had plotted my murder for years.
Odysseus.
Yes?
My son. Orestes.
Did he avenge me?
My lord. how could I know?
I'm still trying to get home.
Don't make my mistake.
Don't walk in the front door expecting garlands and praise.
Come in disguise.
Take your time.
Assess.
Do you see?
I know what I have to do.
Some of what you have to do.
My prophecy is not for their ears.
Back to the ship.
Sail southwest.
Pass the sirens.
Their song lures your men onto the rocks.
They all die.
I won't let that happen.
I'll block their ears.
With wax.
Pass the sirens.
You choose between the whirlpool Charybdis and the monster Scylla.
The whirlpool in the sea takes all of your lives.
The monster in the cliffs?
Only six.
But your determination to not sacrifice any more lives kills all of them.
I'll do what I have to.
At the end.
When starvation and mutiny threaten. they demand to land where the sun god grazes his cattle.
They slaughter Apollo's herd.
Zeus kills them for it.
Do you see?
I'll stop them.
Why do you value these men's lives more than those you've already lost?
I can still save them from the gods.
But not from themselves.
What is that?
Your unburied crew.
Demanding you share their dishonor.
Let's go!
We rode out of hell.
Leaving so many fallen comrades.
I have to save the rest.
What's happened to them?
Did they leave me here?
Are they coming back?
Did you do something to them?
I hope so.
You told me not to eat the lotus flower.
Just tonight.
So you can get some sleep.
And tomorrow. when you're ready. you'll remember.
You'll remember your crew.
And your family.
Family?
A wife?
Do I have a wife?
So I'm a lanthal.
Strangers don't come in here.
Screen or no screen. after three years of feasting together. we're far from strangers. Penelope.
Are you trying to marry me or ruin my reputation?
Melanthal can be discreet.
I'm actually here out of concern for your reputation.
Oh?
Everyone sees how hard you work.
Slow. steady progress.
Hmm.
But every night. you've been unraveling that work.
Leave us.
You can't expect her to be loyal to a master she never even knew.
I expect her to be loyal to me.
I mean. she will be.
And you're married to me.
Slaves have no choice but to be loyal to the future.
And this is a household waiting for a master.
Just as Ithaca is a kingdom waiting for a king.
Ithaca's king is coming back.
No. he's not.
Did you know that as a boy. I tried to go with him to Troy?
He never told me that.
Dizzy's refused to let me.
He knew that Ithaca needed a future without him.
And he saw me as part of that future.
I'll never tell other suitors about your deception.
Finish your weaving.
It's time to let him go.
Why would you want to marry someone who loves someone else?
Your loyalty to a disuse is one of your finest qualities.
I love you.
I want you to choose me and end all this.
You can't tell me you're not tired.
You've done your duty year after year after year.
It's time to think of yourself.
It's time to live again.
It's what a disuse would have wanted.
I'll take care of all your needs.
And my son.
Withthrown as he is.
He's the heir.
Unless we have a child of our own.
Where is Telemachus?
He's gone inland.
To visit his grandfather.
He's gone for years of his father.
Where?
He's gone to Sparta.
To Menelaus.
Well. should we go there?
No.
To move out. Melanthius.
I told you you're a coward.
He was listening.
No. no.
I was coming for Argus.
I told you that dog stays there.
Go back to the farm.
When you need your pigs. we'll send Melanthius.
You're no longer welcome to this palace. old man.
I answered to my mistress.
Does she even know your name?
Now go.
Telemachus will have to come back by the temple at Pylos.
Take your man away from there.
Well. so you can stay and try and charm the queen.
I don't think so.
He needs to die on that road.
And Argus has a plan.
Argus!
I need everyone in this party dead.
In a ditch.
Throats open.
Then Telemachus and his men will be ready for the bandits who work the road between here and Pylos.
But if some of them took the temple from the priests before they arrived...
Then bring me part of Telemachus' proof.
His nose.
Would you know him only by his nose?
His ears. too.
Who taught you?
My father's swineherd.
Swineherd.
His most loyal servant.
Odysseus left his most loyal servant behind.
He always was the smartest.
Only one Agamemnon ever listened to.
Should have listened harder.
Can I ask what happened to your brother?
His wife betrayed him.
Murdered him.
What did you do to them?
His son. Orestes.
He killed them both.
But he killed his own mother?
He avenged his father.
But you don't have to worry.
Your mother has nothing in common with Clytemnestra.
Maybe not.
But the suitors have convinced the elders it's time she remarried.
Yeah.
It's not a good time for an empty throne.
Heard the stories.
People from the sea.
Have you been raided?
Not yet. but the attacks. they do seem closer.
Sparta's ready.
What about Ithaca?
She'll be able to raise an army. defend herself.
Someone's got to take the throne.
Then the battle is there. not here. son.
You've run from the problem.
Left your mother. the mercy of the suitors.
Should I hire mercenaries?
Go back and kill them all?
Murder rich and powerful guests in your own home.
You'll be exiled.
What then?
You must evict them without violating Zeus' law.
I have to take the throne.
I have to know if Odysseus is alive.
This has nothing to do with a father you've never known.
You have to lead. son.
No matter what's happened to Odysseus.
You need to remember.
No. I don't.
I don't need to know the truth.
Odysseus. I'm happy here with you.
And why are you gathering the bones of your old ship to make a raft?
Remember your crew.
Your journey.
I heard the song of the sirens.
Put the wax in the men's ears.
None for me.
Tie me to the mast.
Why?
I want to hear the siren song.
No.
That's a bad idea.
No one's ever heard the song and lived.
That's why it's a good idea.
I'll be the first.
No matter how hard I plead. do not untie me until we're well clear.
Check the men's ears.
A week's rations for the first.
Yes. sir.
What was the siren song?
All the things he wanted to be.
Then. all the things he wished he'd never wished for.
It was the delicious itch you go to scratch.
They find it's under the skin and you can't reach it.
So the delicious itch becomes unbearable.
Told you what you most want
is what you most can't have.
And what you most can't have
is what you already had
and lost.
It was the song of all the promises
I failed to keep.
And it told me
I don't really want to go home.
I want her ahead!
Charybdis.
A monstrous whirlpool.
Horses of sails!
Come on. let's go!
It's a wind!
Let's go!
Can we head out to sea?
It's already got us!
Get in the boat!
Move it!
We might make that canyon.
It's too narrow.
Make for the whirlpool.
If you steer down the slope.
we can make enough way
to shoot out the other side.
Don't be afraid.
We can do it.
No.
No!
We're making for the channel.
We're making for the channel!
Get the oars in!
Governors. prepare to hold water!
It's time to travel!
You did!
We did!
You got it!
Move it!
Keep us straight!
You knew!
And you didn't tell us!
If I told you. you wouldn't have chosen this way.
And those men would still be alive!
No! We'd all be dead.
You had no right!
I had every right.
And every responsibility.
The Whirlpool would have destroyed the ship
and all of us!
This way we live!
Some of us live!
Yes!
What else did Tyresius tell you?
I'm gonna put in there.
We can't land there.
That's the sun god's isle.
We need repairs!
These men are exhausted!
I lost six shipmates!
You're gonna put in.
I'm gonna rest up on dry land.
You're all gonna die!
You asked me what Tyresius told me.
He said you're all gonna die.
If you slaughter the sun god's cattle.
which graze on that island.
you'll all die.
That's fine.
We'll put in.
We'll cook our own provisions.
We'll pick fruit.
We'll get water.
We'll put in.
Nothing more.
Swear to it.
All of you.
See?
The wind took us right in.
We'll rest up.
do the repairs.
and set out as soon as the wind changes.
Grab that light.
Did the crew keep their promise?
Yes.
For a long time.
But the wind never changed.
The steady onshore breeze
that made it so easy for us to land
made it impossible to leave.
And our provisions ran out.
Go!
Did you think if you ate quietly.
the sun god wouldn't notice?
We thought you wouldn't notice.
I'm not the problem.
I wanted you to live.
Tyresius told you.
Cersei told you.
The gods told you.
You gods don't speak in ways we understand.
Who doesn't understand pain?
Or blood?
Or death?
When you watch your man die.
do you see chance.
or do you see consequence?
I see consequence.
I see my failure.
What if their deaths aren't your failure.
but theirs?
I lead them.
I led them here.
And who led you?
Why do you put yourself above the gods?
Why do you claim responsibility?
Why don't you want to go home?
What do you expect?
They ran out of food.
Have some pity.
My pity is what put us on this damn island.
I told you what would happen.
Yes. you did.
And we decided we would rather drown than starve.
Well. now's our chance.
The wind is dropped!
The calm was just long enough
to lure us out onto Poseidon's ocean.
Under Zeus' sky.
The last thing I remember was the harsh hand of Zeus.
I don't know what happened to my men.
Yes. you do.
Exactly what you told them would happen.
I washed up on your shore alone.
You washed up on my shore
with some of your boat
and none of your crew.
Half dead. unconscious.
I watched you lost for days
into weeks.
I knew the Lotus would ease your awakening
so that your pain was more of the body than the mind.
And it did.
You liked it so much.
You ate it so willingly.
And as I cared for you.
Thank you.
I came to love you.
How long have I been here?
I kept telling myself to stop giving it to you.
That you were strong enough to remember.
How long. Calypso?
You were so happy.
You were happy.
We were so happy.
For years.
Years?
Seven years.
You fed me lotus flower
and held me captive.
I saved your life.
I rebuilt your body.
I just couldn't bring myself
to rebuild your mind.
You have been happy.
Your heart
was just always somewhere else.
And your mind
was bound to follow
eventually.
How could you?
The lotus clouds
the mind
and saps the well
but it doesn't change
who you are.
You weren't ready
to go home
for whatever reason.
I am now.
As I always knew
you would be.
How?
You were clutching something
when I found you.
Your hand wouldn't open
for weeks.
You'd call out.
Mostly to Athena
but sometimes
you would say
another name.
Help me go home.
I am.
You're a man
who needs to control
his fate
but you cannot control
this.
You must give yourself
to the storm
give yourself
to Poseidon
and take your punishment.
Zeus won't let him
kill you.
Give up the fight
give up control
and live
and to leave
a fate
you've never yet
made Odysseus.
Odysseus.
Where am I?
Don't you recognize
your own home?
Zeus welcomes you
strangers.
How many are you?
Half a dozen.
Need of a meal?
And supplies
for the road.
Where are you headed?
We need pigs.
We're going all the way
to Pylos.
Are you pilgrims?
Do we look like pilgrims?
I don't see well.
Zeus demands
I offer you a meal
but these pigs
aren't mine to sell.
Oh don't worry.
We're not paying.
Give my greetings
to your mother.
Tell her I'm sorry.
I'm sorry for Troy.
I'm sorry I had
no news of your father.
No. you had news.
Not of where he is
but who he is.
And now more than ever
I hope to one day
meet him.
Where are your
watchdogs old man?
I'm burning their bodies.
Can Zeus offer you
food and drake stranger?
Were you attacked?
The dog saved
your farm heads.
Oh. he burned
his brothers first.
What happened to Ithaca?
Darkness.
Zeus' law
smashed to pieces.
a kingdom
without a king
since my master
died.
Your master?
Odysseus.
Hero of the Trojan War.
But Odysseus is alive.
No more!
Telemachus.
He's in danger.
He's in danger
and I can't help him.
There must be others
in this
because it would
help Odysseus' son.
The palace is
controlled by suitors.
No one still loyal
to Odysseus.
What about the queen?
Beautiful. wise Penelope. held hostage by the worst men. soon to be forced into marriage.
What could she do without even her son?
Here. drink.
What's the danger to Telemachus?
He's on his way back from Sparta.
The suitors sent bandits to Pylos to ambush him at the temple.
Give me food for the road.
You'll never catch up with the bandits.
If I can get to Pylos before Telemachus arrives. I can warn him.
Why are you helping?
If I tell you. don't be angry.
I served with Odysseus at Troy.
Really?
He was a harsh taskmaster.
Oh. but fair.
Fair and worthy of following.
You loved him.
Like a son.
Well. he's not dead.
Is he coming home?
Soon.
Bringing vengeance.
Bringing it all.
I'll talk.
We don't want people realizing where you are.
Maybe we shouldn't have brought a guard.
We'll be glad we did if we have trouble on the road.
Find that beggar.
Your men must wait out here.
The weapons. too.
Zeus welcomes you strangers.
Have you traveled far?
Not that far.
You're here to rest for the night.
We're here to make sacrifice to Athena.
And whatever hospitality you can offer might be considered.
Of course.
Get that beggar out of here.
He has a message for me.
He may have sent you.
Yes. sir.
Well. what's the message?
It's private.
These men are pretty.
This is your moment to leave. old man.
Go. stranger.
I already spared one old man this week.
But he was blind.
I won't spare them.
Not bad for a beggar.
No one's born a beggar.
We'll take this priest's robes. put them over your armor.
Help me with his body.
We have to leave him.
No.
We have to slip out.
That's not how you honor the dead.
That is how you stay alive.
He was my teacher.
He might have been Athena in disguise.
His name was Mentor.
And when you are safe. we'll travel to the unknown west.
And we will honor him.
These men were sent by the suitors.
There will be more of them we need to get on the road.
By night?
Safer than staying here.
Mentor's at the heart of Athena's oldest temple.
For now. we'll honor him in flame.
So how does a beggar come to know Mentor?
I told you.
I wasn't always a beggar.
You have wise eyes.
Athena's eyes.
You're gods and men.
You'll just be disappointed.
Well. then tell me who you are.
My name is Sinon.
I'm an old soldier who fought under your father at Troy.
You knew my father?
I've been taking orders from him for longer than I care to remember.
Wait. he's alive?
He's alive.
Well. where is he?
He's close by.
He sent me ahead to assess the situation.
Well. mother's not gonna believe it.
No. you can't tell her.
What. nothing?
Tell her.
Tell her he decided it's time she remarried.
He doesn't need to test my mother.
How can he doubt her?
He doesn't.
But she has every reason to have forgotten him.
Are there any loyal servants?
Some?
Well. he just shows himself all.
We need to gather the suitors at the palace.
That's never a problem.
You have gifts for Menelaus?
Yeah. on my ship.
Good.
Come back as a prince.
Call a banquet.
I'll be there.
What will you do at the banquet?
Beg.
The clearest view of a man is from below.
How many suitors are there?
Dozens.
If all of his men are like you. then...
He doesn't have any men.
But it's just you?
And you.
Telemachus is back.
What?
Who's saying this?
Everyone's thinking of...
Where's Telemachus?
My queen!
Surely your place is up there.
Is it true?
You're home?
I'm back.
I thought tonight we could celebrate.
If we have anything left to celebrate with.
Don't worry.
My brave suitors will shower us with gifts to honor your return.
So glad to see your safe return.
Glad to see you on your feet.
It's about time we took you back to the palace.
What did you hear about your father?
Nothing.
Stories from the war. but no one knew what happened to him after he left Troy.
I'm sorry mom.
Everyone in Sparta is talking about a coming catastrophe.
An age of darkness brought on by people from the sea violating Zeus' law.
Then stories are true.
Our civilization is collapsing.
Menelaus is concerned that we can't raise an army with an empty throne.
So we came up with a plan.
What plan?
The one way to get the suitors to leave.
It's time for you to choose.
You want me to remarry?
If you remarry. the other suitors will leave.
And then I'm only dealing with one of them.
I'm almost of age.
I'll tell the elders that I learned of Odysseus' death in Sparta.
Menelaus will back me up and they'll let me assume the throne.
So you deny your father and I leave my home and go live with one of these snakes.
That's your plan.
Would you have a better one?
Lock the door. set afire. and burn the bastards.
Do you think if I remarry. life goes back to the way it was?
That world is gone.
And in this one. they're not giving up power to you.
Or Odysseus.
If he returned. he'd have to kill them.
Like you will.
If I kill them. their families will demand revenge.
I'd be exiled.
And without me. the throne will be lost.
Because only a man can sit on it.
Empty throne?
I've been sitting on that empty throne for 20 years!
My knowledge. my years of experience.
that's all nothing compared with the bristles on your chin!
Do you want peace?
Or do you want revenge?
I want Odysseus!
Sing!
Muse of a face!
A face!
A fleet!
A war!
At Troy!
Sing news of a man!
A man!
Let's go!
A British!
Ymaes. go ahead.
jacket.
You should bury him up on the cliffs.
Where you met?
you're Odysseus
you're my father
I'm a beggar
and you
are the worthy
beautiful son
of Odysseus
of whom
when you do finally meet
he will be so proud
welcome home
stranger
because the darkness of victory
shrouds the writers
and legends
and make bards
and blind beggars of us all
accept the hospitality of Zeus
get the stranger some food
no sir
I'll just make their hands with a bull
had to invite another one of these filthy plate licors today
what's one more beggar at this feast
we need to kill him before he regains his position with the elders
how
get him to grab one of the weapons
he's not the same young pup
he used to be
when we come back tonight
let me cut his tongue
fuck off old man
please
it's been days since I've eaten
I told you to fuck off
you can't be generous with food
that's not even yours
there's no room in your bowl
yes there is
so there is
there you go
I suppose you want something for me now
no
I have something for you
you have something for me
what could a filthy old plate licor like you possibly have
that I could want
actually
it's yours
I was asked to return it
it's not mine
no
where did you get this
don't turn your back on me
continuous
you can't treat a beggar like that
it's Zeus's law
Zeus's law
you think this is a god
you think this is a god in disguise
are you
are you a god
white necker
no
I'm a veteran of the Trojan War
veteran of the Trojan War
and what's your name veteran
synod
does that name mean something to you
no
I use it to honor
the bravest young man I ever met
synod
not just shepherd's boy
I don't remember that
yeah yeah he wanted you to take his place
where does he find us
where he'll soon be
where is that
Hades
enough
the feast is done
the skull
is not mine
a queen would like to speak with you
stay till everyone's left and the fires don't look
hello traveler
my queen
melanthal
have your clay wash the stranger's feet
that's not necessary
my husband insisted we honor guests as family
you know of Odysseus
my husband
of course
of the songs
I was at Troy ma'am
the songs probably seem silly
they make me cry
why
for what was lost
the lives
in the years
everything
did you know Odysseus at Troy
I did
was there some
detail of
how he dressed
something he wore
he wore a strange pin
strange
beautiful
but out of place
describe it
I'll get more water
it was a beautiful
gold pin
a figure of Athena
encircled by vines
did he wear it off
he never took it off
how is it that you made it home
when Odysseus could not
I'm not home
not yet
why not
it's not always an easy thing
a homecoming
that's as true for Odysseus
as for me
the Odysseus I knew
would have found
or fought his way back to me
no matter what
what if the Odysseus you knew
lost his way
what if
one night
in a strange city
he saw things
that made him think
the home
he knew
couldn't possibly
be there anymore
what if
when he left
the belly of the horse
and opened the gates
of Troy
he saw ten years
of rage
pour into that city
in one night
we left them
a gift
an offering
of peace
that they took
into their home
we violated
all that's ever sacred
between people
and turned to fight
into a hunt
to burn the walls of Troy
was to burn the world
entire
including his home
what if he knew
that very night
as he walked through fires
of anarchy
and pain
and in the days
of sweaty celebrations
to follow
what if he knew
exactly
what he'd done
what all of you
had done
one man's idea
one man's trick
to break
Zeus's law
forever
we lived in a world
of palaces
and trade
and language
blind to its beauty
until we broke it
you are the people
from the sea
yes my queen
the breaking
of Zeus's law
is spreading
like plague
our age of bronze
is collapsing
and maybe he couldn't
bear to see
the ruins
of what he'd done
anywhere
least of all
his home
but Odysseus
is alive
and he'll be here
when you need him most
wow
I've been living
in his ruins
long enough
bring the suitors
at dawn
remove the arms
from the hall
in a few hours
one suitor
will be happy
and the rest
angry vengeful men
bronze draws a man on
so we'll have no weapons
at the trial
and the doors
will be locked
I'll marry whoever
completes my challenge
how will we take
on the suitors
not we
their blood
belongs on my hands
or you'd face exile
won't you
just make sure
they can't get
those weapons
I'll see to it
even on arm
there are so many
of them
and you won't
have a weapon
oh I'll have a weapon
your mother's seen
to that
gather the servants
you trust
lock the arms
in the upper
storage room
she seems interested
in the outcome
but what's the trial
for years
while my husband's
been gone
you've commandeered
this palace
for your feasting
your excuse was
you wanted to win
my hand in marriage
as I listen
to you party
and fight
corrupt my servants
and disrespect
my home
I've wanted nothing
more than for Odysseus
to return
and see all this
for himself
but last night
I realized
he's not here now
he never will be
so
I stand
ready to marry
anyone here
who can string
this hunting bow
and shoot an arrow
through those
twelve axes
step up
and show me
who you are
Eumaeus
who's first
give me the bow
it can't be done
by you
this boy
is our Odysseus
do with ease
then you do it
I'll wait my turn
why don't we
warm the bow
and oil it
this bow
hasn't been
strung in years
your turn
there's no need
the queen
has made her point
we can't replace
Odysseus
some of us
have always known
that
some of us
would have followed
that great man
to Troy
if he'd let us
but he never
came back
so choose
the best
of us here
all of us
who failed
your test
I haven't
somebody get
these beggars
out of here
doors are locked
until the trial
is over
the trial
I want to try
he has a right
to try
if he won't
he may as well
you're making a
mockery of your
mother's wishes
my mother's wishes
are for you all
to burn
he's an old archer
look at the expert
at work
late record
come on
old man
forget it
okay friend
friend
friend that's enough
no let it go
you're
disy
surely your place
is down there
is it him
what are the
weapons
they have
a storm
get them
what are you
waiting for
they're going to
kill us all
I told you
too loud
cowards
no
get the doors
I don't know.
Oh my God!
Oh no!
And nobody else has. man. maybe you'll need to make it again.
Spears!
You thought you could kill us all?
As long as I kill you!
Finish this.
You're dead!
When you get to Hades. tell my men I will head west and honor them.
And tell Sinnoth. I gave you back your shame.
Did he beat them?
Is he dead?
We broke the fragile bonds between men.
And for centuries of darkness to follow. the stories of Troy will only be sung.
Is he dead?
My love.
You get back.
At last.
In the end.
To see my beloved if I could.
One last time.
No.
No. no. you can't.
You can't.
Not now.
Please.
You can't die.
Not death.
Exile.
Telemachus will be king.
Take your fastest ship.
And greatest crew.
And head for the horizon.
Chasing the escaping sun.
Why will the stories only be sung?
Because songs will be all they have to remember those of us who could write.
Civilization will rise again.
A new dawn will break over the darkened world.
And our mistakes will once again be forgotten.
Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-